Agile Notes
-----------
Sdlc= Software Development Life cycle. in simple words the process of developing testing and releasing the software into a market.

types of Sdlc models
------------------------
      waterfall- it is the old and traditional first metholody.
      sprial
      vmodel
      Agile
water fall model Drawbacks:
---------------------------------
1) Requirements must be clear and stable
2)Testing comes late into the picture feedback and aditional requirements from client cant be integrated
3)Humongous efforts needed for documentation
4)time consuming
5)changes for correcting the errors  are very minimal  and changes for errors are very high
6)waterfall can either be a huge sucess or a huge Failure

General meaning word for Agile- able to move quickly and easily
 instance change  due to the sution.
technical 
----------
what is agile?
Agile is an iterative approach to project management and software development that helps teams
deliver value to their customers faster and with fewer headaches.
Instead of bigbang launch an agile team delivers work in small yet consumable.
requirements plans and results are evaliated continuously so teams have a natural mechanisms for responding to change quickly.

Agile fameworks
-------------------
Scrum
kanban
extreme programming(Xp)
Scaled Agile framework(sAfe)

Scrum
--------
scrum is a framework for developing and sustining complex products.
Scrum describes a set of meeting tools and roles that work in concert to help teams structure and manage their work.

Scrum roles
-------------
Developers(Team)
product Owner
Scrum master

sprint task 1 to 4 weeks or 1-15 days meeting held on daily basics is called scrum meeting or standup meeting.
retrospecive=team perfomance.
sprint review= product review.
balance will be added to blacklog

product owner:
------------------
Providing the vision of the product of the team.
managing the product blacklog in a clear and transprent way.
prioritize the baclog items to achive the best output
Explanning the product baclogs in a clear manner to the team to help the team to make the better desisons.

team(product backlog ->shippable team)
------------------------------------------------
Self organized(What to commit and how to commit)
cross function(analysis,dev,testing,Db) and structured team)
Team is accountable as a whole (No blame game on a single person)
usally team size 5-7

Scrum master
----------------
Helps team to adopt scurm
helps team to self organise
protects  the team from the outside interference
conducts scrum events
Eliminates obstructions for the progress of the team
Important:scrum master and product owner are diffrent persons.


Scrum cermonies
---------------------
1)  cermony : sprint planning:
      particpants: Team, Scrum master,product owner.
      duration:2 hrs
      when: occurs before the start of the sprint 	 
      purpose:
	i) The dev team will discuss about each item on the prioritized backlog that the po has and the entire group collectively estimates the effort involved.
	ii)dev team will make forecast on how much work can be done on that sprint considering Several factors and risks
	iii) the shortlisted list of backlog becomes Sprint Backlog.


2)  cermony : Daily Standup meeting or scrum meeting or scrum call. conducted by scrum master.
      particpants: Team, Scrum master,product owner.
      duration: 15 mins
      when: occurs daily 
      purpose:
	i) to quickly inform every one on whats going on across the team.
	ii) its not detailed one. it should be sort and to the point.
	The following questions are answered by the team
		a) what did I complete yesterday?
		b) what will i work on today?
		c) Am i blocked by anything?



3)  cermony : sprint review.
      particpants: Team, Scrum master,product owner.
      duration: 30 mins to 1 hour
      when: At the end of each sprint.
      purpose:
	i) the team will showcase the work they did.
	ii) this event is to celebrate the completion of itreation and get feedback about the completed work.
	iii) this event usally happends on friday and is more like a fun meeting rather than a formal one.
4)  cermony : sprint retrospective.
      particpants: Team, Scrum master,product owner.
      duration: 1 hour
      when: At the end of each sprint.
      purpose:
	i) retrospective meeting help the team understand "what went well "and "what did't " for the team.
	ii)Rather than complanning team will keep doing things which are under
	 "What went well" category and will try to find creative solutions for things that didn't go well.
	iii)continuously getting and adapted and learning is the ESSENCE of Agile and retrospective is the KEY place for that.


scrum Artifacts(set of documents)
------------------
Scrum Artifacts = i)work or value created by the scrum partipants
	              which is transpent and helps team to inspect and adapt.
	          ii)This Artifact details the product being developed actions needed to 
                                 produce the product and actions performed during the project.
	     
i)product backlog: 
	a) product owner explains the vision of the project during the intial stage 
	    and this evolves into a well defined set ofrequirements for the product
	    called product backlog.
	b) it is updated on a continous manner by the product owner to 
	    accomodate the changes in the customer end or to reflect 
	    changes due to risks,issues etc.. 
ii) sprint backlog:
	a) it is a set of task selected from the product backlog. 
	    the team will work on these baclog items to create 
	    the increment. (potentially product)
	b) Sprint backlog is created by picking up some task 
	    on the product backlog and breaking them into 
	    several actionable sprint items.
iii) increment:
	a) it is the resultant product of the Sprint produced by completing the sprint Backlog task.
	b) Every sprint must have a potentially shippable increment.
vi)Definition of done:(its is not offical)
v) burn down chart(its is not offical)

Scrum values
----------------
i)courage: scrum team members have courage to do the right thing and work on tough problems
ii)Focus: Everyone focusses on the work of the sprint and the goals of the scrum team.
iii)commitment:people personallycommit to achiveing the goals of the scrum team
iv)respect:scrum team members respect each other to capable independent people.
v)openness: the scrum team and its stake holders agree to be open about all the work and the challeges with performing the work.


